I'm done I'm throwing Alexa in the trash
I want to create my very own fully local
AI powered voice assistant and I'm going
to go a bit crazy first I wanted to use
AI because Alexa's kind of dumb but I
don't want to use AI in the cloud I'm
tired of people being all up in my
business get out of here Jeff so I want
to do everything local in fact I want to
connect it up to my AI server Terry that
I built in this video here in fact I
wanted to answer to Terry and have the
voice of Terry this voice I have a
s can we do it
I I don't know okay Nabu what year did
The Matrix come out I hate you I hate
you so much okay Nabu what year did The
[Music]
Matrix I quit I quit if you do want to
follow along with anything I'm doing
here here's my parts list starting with
level one basic and easy and then here's
all the stuff I have for advanced
everything will be below now it turns
out this is actually not that hard to do
at least at level one level three and
four are kind of insane and that's
that's where we're going that's kind of
where Terry needs to live and by the way
I'm showing you this journey as kind of
a tutorial so if you want to follow
along and build this yourself let's do
it again the first one's not that hard
but the last one I think it'll be level
three or four will involve training a
voice with AI which took me way longer
than I expected and I had to rent a GPU
server on Amazon we'll get to that now
as I said before I've been using Alexa
for a long time this is like one of the
first alexas I think it is the first one
and by the way I'm so sorry if I'm
setting off all your stuff even more of
a reason to go local right but seriously
I'm done with cloud-based stuff I want
to go fully local for everything in my
last video I started that process by
installing home assistant on a device
like this a Raspberry Pi home assistant
is a fully local home automation
software and it's fully free and fully
awesome so if you do want to follow this
tutorial and set up your own local voice
AI assistant go watch that video and see
how to set up home assistant because you
will need that why I'll go into that
here in a moment now replacing your home
automation that's actually not too bad
it's pretty easy but replacing
voice harder to do mainly because
there's not a ton of options out there
at least not options I can meet my
laundry list of what I want to do now my
first task was to see who has gone
before me has someone already done this
the answer is kind of and then they gave
up but now we kind of have something a
little bit but it's hard to figure out
let me explain I found the perfect
solution it's called mcraft they even
had a device like Alexa take my money
but okay it's dead discontinued it was
killed off by a nefarious patent Troll
And even their Kickstarter backers were
left empty-handed they were supposed to
receive one of their devices and they
look pretty cool I mean look at this
thing that would have been awesome and
beyond that there really wasn't much I
was coming up empty but then for some
reason I overlooked home assistant wait
what you mean the thing that's
controlling your home yes I like you
thought okay that's just my home
automation now I need a voice assistant
no they just had their year of voice in
2023 and their goal was to implement
voice control for the home okay sounds
pretty interesting okay what they've
done is way more than interesting check
this out they enabled support for an
open source tool called raspy which I
had never heard of until this moment
moment a fully offline check set of
voice assistant services for things like
home assistant now along with having the
worst logo I've ever seen what even is
that they do things like open wake word
it's just built in and that's being able
to wake up your assistant based on a
voice command kind of important so think
Alexa Okay Google Terry it'll do St or
speech to text again this is all running
locally on your hardware and you
actually have options for what you can
use I went with using open ai's whisper
and not the cloud stuff the locally
hosted model they provide and then they
have the reverse because you want your
voice assistant to talk back to you
that's TTS again a few options but I
fell in love with this tool called Piper
now raspy is not new but what is fairly
new with home assistant is the intent
the intent recognition when you tell
your voice assistant to do something
like hey turn off that light or what's
the temperature of the bathroom right
now and needs to take what you say and
figure out okay how do we make this a
command for the system to actually do so
home assistant came in clutch with their
thing called assist which which allows
raspy to talk to assist and tell it to
do things like turn on and off lights
turn off the internet and that by itself
is cool but home assistant did one very
cool thing that I didn't see an easy way
to do anywhere else you see I wanted
raspy which essentially is just a voice
tool it doesn't have any like smarts per
se it's not like AI it's not like
talking to Chad BT so I wanted to have
raspy talk to an llm similar to Chad BT
so than ol Lama with llama 3 I couldn't
find an easy way to do that but home
assistant makes that stupid easy they
actually have haveit to where an llm
like AMA can be the brain and when I
realized this I went and tried it and
it's kind of easy to set up let's set it
up right now you don't need anything
special all you need is the device
you're running home assistant on which I
have it running on this Raspberry Pi
right now again if you don't have that
set up go watch my video now I'm
starting from scratch so I can show you
everything from the beginning so here I
have a fresh installation of Home
assistant I'll add one device so we can
play with stuff and by one device I mean
all my Phillips Hue Lights so lots of
devices and real quick what we're going
to do is set up what's called a voice
pipeline it sounds way scarier than it
actually is just a few steps so here in
home assistant we'll go into settings
we'll click on add-ons which will add
additional functionality to our home
assistant system home assistant system
kind of a tongue twister then we'll go
to add-on store and we're going to add
two things We'll add whisper for our stt
or speech to text so we'll just search
whisper there it is Click install and
this will actually be running whisper
transcription locally on your Raspberry
Pi and if that doesn't make you excited
what does what do you do for fun this is
what I do for fun and drink coffee once
installed we'll click on start so
whisper takes our speech and makes it
text now we need something that can take
text and make it speech a TTS so we'll
go back and search for one more add-on
it's called Piper Piper is kind of
amazing also kind of frustrating you'll
see why here in a second click on Piper
click on install little coffee
break then we'll start that sucker and
by the way this is all level one stuff
super easy and then we're going to add
two more things we go back we'll search
for assist microphone this will allow us
to use the microphone of our our local
device and actually I have this Blue
Yeti microphone I'm going to use can
really be any microphone you want I know
it's a mi error but still I'm going to
go and plug this in by the way you don't
need a microphone to do what I'm doing
red light we're good to go so I'll
install that and before I start it if I
go to configuration at the top here and
scroll down just a little bit until I
see audio I can choose my options for
input I'll say My Blue Snowball mono and
actually you know I have a speaker too
I'm replacing Alexa with this Behemoth
all right let's see if it finds that
speaker now how about I save it go back
see oh it even saved my settings there
it is save and now let's start it and
then one more add-on we're going to add
open wake word click on that install
again this will enable us to be able to
wake up our assistant with a command or
a name and we'll click on start add-ons
are done from here we'll go to settings
and then devices and services and notice
they autois discovered two weird things
these buffalos actually a bunch of weird
things or are they bison I don't know
what are these bison doing on our screen
this cattle this is the Wyoming protocol
we'll go into this a bit more here in a
moment but just know now it's the
Wyoming protocol that discovered our
add-ons so whisper Piper open wake word
and our assist microphone all we have to
do right now is click on configure on
each one of these submit finish
configure submit finish configure submit
finish last one configure submit finish
now would you believe that we're almost
done with having a local Voice Assistant
check this out all we have to do now is
go back to settings and then go into a
special place called voice assistants
now they already have one there by
default just called home assistant let's
edit that one click on that and here
we're kind of configuring our voice
Pipeline with the components we just
added we'll scroll down a bit until we
see speech to text here we're going to
click that drop down and we should see
faster whisper that's what we just
installed for St and then for text to
speech we'll change home assistant Cloud
to Piper we also just installed that and
then for the Wake word we'll choose our
wake word engine we just installed that
and we'll choose our wake word Alexa no
we've been saying that way too much
let's do microft rest in peace and
update but what should happen is I
should be able to talk to this I think
let's see
okay micraft how are you
today nothing why isn't it working let's
go troubleshoot make sure our
configuration was good yeah let's try
restarting some stuff okay Nabu how are
you that scared me how are
you sorry I couldn't understand
that that was terrifying fine all right
I've got a light behind me let's see if
you can find that light now what's it
called Chuck lamp light okay
Nabu turn off Chuck lamp
light sorry I'm not aware of any device
called Chuck
Lamplight now first of all that's just
cool second why isn't it working I know
why okay
Nabu turn off Chuck lamp light in Studio
One
turned off the light now notice I had to
be very specific and it was a bit slow
we're going to change that in the future
levels comeing out but how cool is that
all running on a Raspberry Pi that's
powerful now you can also chat with it
right here in your browser by going to
the top right and clicking on that
assist icon and saying turn back on
Chuck lamp light in Studio One turn on
Chuck lamp light in Studio One got it
now I can't use voice right here because
it's not using an https connection
browsers block that if you do want to
try the voice and you don't have
anything to try it with install the
mobile app you'll be able to talk back
and forth it's pretty neat hey real
quick can I show you something awesome
watch this okay Nabu who is the sponsor
of this
video Bit Defender is the sponsor it is
the best thing ever okay I'll tell you
how I did that here in a second but
watch this okay NAU what does Bit
Defender want me to talk about listen
Chuck they have a set of new features in
their platform specifically scam
co-pilot go check your notes and stop
being lazy how cool is that but
seriously the sponsor of today's video
is Bit Defender and yes scam co-pilot is
a new set of features part of their new
platform and is included in their
all-in-one security plans now by far the
coolest thing is what they can do on
your phone watch this I just installed
this first of all I can chat with my
scam co-pilot right here then it can
also do this and I had no idea this was
a feature if I go to finish setup for
full protection it can do SMS protection
what so I go to my set and I go to
messages here in unknown and spam
message filtering I can specify Bit
Defender to filter my messages for me
and use the power of spam co-pilot yes
heck yeah I enable it I can do calendar
invite protection that's cool I mean how
many of you have gotten these random
weird calendar invites you're like what
is that probably spam okay
Nabu where can they learn more about
scam co-pilot Chuck drink some more
coffee you already know this they can
learn more about Bit Defender scam
co-pilot by clicking the link in the
description don't worry it's safe we
checked it you heard her now how did I
do that and by the way thanks to Bit
Defender for sponsoring this video and
being a continued sponsor of my Channel
please show them some love and check out
their stuff below but watch this this is
so cool and we're just scratching the
surface if I go to settings and I go to
automations this is how I did this I
created a few automations that respond
to a certain voice sentence I say voice
sentence so for example the first one
was new automation the trigger is when I
say something like who is the sponsor of
this video and then I can have it
respond with a certain response and
that's how I did all these things now
you can do a lot more than that but we
got to move on okay level one done but
here's the thing if we're going to
replace Alexa we got to have more than
just one right and it can't just be
running on the home assistant device
itself we need others that we can use
and connect back to this this is where
the Wyoming satellite and the Wyoming
protocol come in now the Wyoming
protocol our beloved bison Buffalo thing
I'm not sure what that is it's is a
small peer-peer protocol for voice
assistant now what does that mean for us
it means that we can take a Raspberry Pi
for example which I'm about to do that
right now with this guy right here ah
he's kind of Wiggly and we can make the
Raspberry Pi a Wyoming satellite
essentially a remote Voice Assistant
that can communicate with and use the
voice pipeline from home assistant now
this would be kind of level two not too
scary but it does involve some command
line let's get going you might want to
drink some coffee for
this now if you want to do the whole USB
plugin thing you can you can get a
snowball ball and a a giant speaker and
you can have that with a Raspberry Pi
plugged in all around your house you can
also use something like a Raspberry Pi
zero there's a video from this guy right
here who shows you how to build one I
didn't happen to have one that I wanted
to use but I had a bunch of spare
raspberry pies now a very quick and easy
way to give your Raspberry Pi the
ability to hear or a microphone and the
ability to speak or speakers is with
this thing right here where' it go I've
got one it was in our inventory list
below this is the ree two mic piie hat
this little guy has two microphones on
it and connectors for an external
speaker now I'm going to unplug my pie
real quick and pop on this hat onto its
IO connectors these are Pretty stinking
cheap and they do have LEDs on them so
you can give a little status light for
when you're talking to your assistant so
I'm going to plug it back in here now
this is a fresh Raspberry Pi meaning it
has an SD card with a new image applied
to it I used for my Raspberry Pi I'll
show you real quick it's a Raspberry Pi
4 with I'll go to Raspberry Pi other and
it's the Raspberry Pi OS light 64-bit
that's all you need so make sure you
image the SD card pop pop it in and if
you need help with setting up Raspberry
Pi I do have other videos showing you
how to do that so go ahead and launch
your terminal this will be the same for
Mac Windows Linux and get logged into
your Pi here I'll do a pseudo hbt update
and I'll have all these commands below
first I'll install git and Python 3
virtual environment just like this and
then using git I will clone the Wyoming
satellite repo from raspy it's actually
run by raspy then I'll jump into that
directory the Wyoming satellite CD
Wyoming satellite and this next command
is only for you if you're using this
little hat we have the re speaker 2 mic
or for mic hat we're going to recompile
and install the drivers with this
command the drivers are telling a
Raspberry Pi how to talk to this guy oh
and I forgot to mention I've got a
little bitty speaker that I'm going to
plug into our re speak pie hat it sounds
like not great but it's still pretty
cool I love how tiny it is and then
we'll do a pseudo reboot we'll get
logged back in when it comes back up all
right now that we're logged back in
we're going to CD into Wyoming satellite
and we're going to create a python
virtual environment with python 3- mvnv
VNV these are super powerful they help
you isolate things and not step on
anything else's toes and then we'll use
these few commands to upgrade pip which
is a python package uh manager installer
then we'll use wheel to do some setup
tools easy for me to say and then we'll
run this very long command to install
all the requirements again all commands
are below all right now we're going to
run one command to make sure
everything's working it should give us a
help file if it's good so if you don't
see this but if you do see this you're
good now we're going to look at our
audio devices now I have the re speak P
hat I've installed drivers to make make
sure it can talk to the Raspberry Pi or
vice versa if you're not doing that
that's fine run this command a record- l
capital L to see your audio devices find
the one you're going to use I'm going to
be using this one right here but if
you're plugging in some headphones or a
Yeti mic just keep that in mind right
now want to make sure everything works
I'm going to run this test command again
fill in your specific mic that's going
to record something right now from this
card for 5 seconds and save it to a
test. wve file let's do that right now I
love when stuff like this becomes
practical hey Network Chuck here I'm
going to take a sip of coffee right now
now let's play that back with this
command a play ready set oh wait I
forgot to put my speaker in oh no let's
add it real quick there we go and playt
Chuck here I'm going to take a sip of
coffee right
now that's so fun okay speaker working
the Wyoming satellite is set up let's
test it real quick we're going to run
this script copy and paste this is very
specific to this Reb hat if you have
something else make sure you exchange
these commands here with your device now
what this is doing is going to run the
satellite on Port 10700 and that's how
our home assistant running over here is
going to connect to it let's run it
right now it is running excellent now
let's go set this up in home assistant
we'll go to settings devices we'll go
into our configured section because we
already have Wyoming configured and find
Wyoming there it is Wyoming protocol
click on that and then we'll click on
add a service here we'll put the IP
address in of our uh Raspberry Pi gosh
what was mine again I forgot and it
doesn't have to be a Raspberry Pi you
could have been using another device you
can do that and then Port 10 700 now
fingers crossed we click submit it found
it we'll leave it in default area click
on finish it's there there now right now
that's all we had to do our voice
pipeline's already in place we added
this via the Wyoming protocol it should
just work okay Nabu how are you found
sorry I couldn't understand that yeah I
think it does get a bit weird I'm going
to it's like I can't understand that I'm
speak in English I'm going to click on
the Dots here and say reload the
satellite let's go watch the command
line see what's going on disconnected
from server and we're back in so now
it's waiting okay Nabu how are you sorry
I couldn't understand that okay it's
being kind of dumb we're going to fix
that dumb problem here in a moment with
level three okay Nabu turn Chuck lamp
light off turned off the light ah we got
it okay you had to be very specific okay
Nabu turn it back on sorry I'm not aware
of any device called it back now you see
that that's stupid and one thing we're
going to fix you'll be able to have a
conversation with it it'll remember the
context W it's so awesome so we verified
it works but now we got to turn this
Wyoming satellite on the Raspberry Pi
into a service so it runs all the time
so when you unplug it and you plug it
back in it's always going to work so
stop this by doing contrl C and we're
going to run this command pseudo system
CTL edit Force full Wyoming satellite
service we're actually creating a
service on this and we're going to paste
in this config keep in mind you're going
to want to make sure you change the user
so right now it's Pi which is incorrect
for me it's got to be Network Chuck so
change it to your user is going to be
referencing those directories and also
keep in mind it's going to be using the
command that's very specific to my pie
hat change it to your appropriate audio
card contrl X Y enter to save we're
going to use system CTL once more to
enable that service with the enable
command man now let's restart it oh no
she already be running let's do a system
CTL status to make sure it's going looks
good from here okay Nabu turn Chuck lamp
light
on turned on the light I mean that alone
is pretty cool but not cool enough we're
going deeper now one thing I hate is
that the there are LED lights on this
but it's not using them I want to be
able to know like when it detects I'm
talking to it let's enable that real
quick that's going to be another service
if you're not interested in that move on
so to get our LED with the re speak
device to work run this command to
install some python libraries and then
we'll CD into the Wyoming satellite
directory and the examples directory oh
we just got to jump into examples we're
already here then we'll create another
virtual environment this time just for
our lights and then we'll do some basic
installation stuff so upgrading pip
setting up wheel the whale installing
Wyoming 152 and then finally installing
the pixel ring python package for our
LEDs now let's test it with this command
testing out two mic service and if you
saw the results of a help command were
good now we're going to create a service
to run that led program all the time so
when this command system C CTL edit
it'll be the two mic LEDs service we're
going to paste in this config changing
our username here to contrl X Y enter to
save and then we will have to edit the
Wyoming service config file and add some
info about those LEDs adding this config
requires two mic LED service so it's
going to be dependent on that and at the
very end of your exec start command
you're going to add this bit event URI
TCP 10500 that's the port that your two
mic LED is going to be running on contr
X Y enter to save let's enable our two
mic LED service with this command and
start it changing enable to start let's
check the status so far so good looking
good let's restart our Wyoming service
and yeah we got some lights okay let's
test it out it should change when I talk
to it okay
Nabu how you doing sorry I couldn't
understand that all right so now that's
all we had to do our remote satellite is
configured calm yourself it's connected
to home assistant and we can just take
this and unplug it in anywhere we can
create multiples of these and they're
all going to be using the Wyoming
protocol to talk now time to get more
insane I think we're on level three now
if we go back into home assistant and go
to a voice assistants once more and we
click on home assistant you know what I
don't like first of all this
conversation agent not smart enough for
me it's too dumb home assistant doesn't
know what's going on I want that to be o
Lama I want it to be a llama 3 actually
I want it to be llama 3.2 a very very
smart local llm that you can run on
pretty much anything you want you know
what else I want the speech to text
whisper I want that run on other
Hardware as well because this Raspberry
Pi right here it's Raspberry Pi 4 not
very fast I can actually run this
whisper on another server now what I'm
going to do right now is demo running it
on this laptop behind me if you can see
that can you see it you can now so I'm
demoing it on this laptop but I'm
ultimately going to use Terry I'll do
the same thing for Piper too I'm going
to offload everything that's AI
intensive to another server let's get to
work okay here on my laptop I'm going to
install AMA so I'm going to go to the
Internet find AMA ama.com go to download
and what I'm showing you here will work
for everything click on window Windows
download did it download oh yeah it's
downloading up there we'll run the setup
now obviously if you got Mac or Linux
click on those the installation is
actually easier than this now what Alama
allows us to do is run local llms or
local versions of chat GPT except they
don't touch the cloud no internet
they're amazing perfect for new Terry
coming up soon okay it says AMA is
running click here to get started Aha
and look it gave us the exact command I
want to run AMA run llama 32 my favorite
model right now so we'll run that
Command right now it's going to download
llama 32 and it's going to run it real
quick I say quick like a minute okay
it's running we can do a little test
like hey and I I don't want any
assistance so I'm going to do buy is it
buy yes buy okay it's running now we can
actually test that by going to our web
browser typing in Local Host and then
Port 11434 awesome ama's running that's
how home assistant is going to connect
to us or the AMA server so now we're
going to go back to home assistant we'll
go to settings and then we'll go to
devices and services and then we're
going to click on at the bottom right
add an integration cuz the new
integration we're going to add is olama
it's official it's supported it's
awesome click on that and then search
for oh Lama there it is click on that
and it'll put in the IP address of our
laptop which mine was 10. 70.7 do or no
10.
72104 and they'll put the port in of 114
ah I can't type today 114 34 fingers
crossed H why okay I think my Windows
Firewall is on let's go turn it off that
will definitely block stuff well it's
turned off okay I know what it is Alama
by default runs on 1271 we need that to
be 00 00 on all interfaces not just our
loot back port to allow connections from
the outside so annoying you probably
won't have this issue on Mac or Linux
I'm going to quit a llama Biol Lama
we'll search for environment variables
and we'll say edit these system
environment variables and then click on
environment variables down here under
system variables we'll create a new one
called _ host and the value will be
0.0.0.0 and that's it now let's launch
AMA again llama it should start running
let's check it in our browser it's up
and now let's add it to home assistant
man I hate that little detour we had to
make one 434 Ready Set stinking yes all
right let's choose our model I'm going
to use 3.2 the one we downloaded and
click submit ah it's there so now how do
we use it with our voice pipeline let's
go to settings this is going to be fun
go to Voice assistants jump into home
assistant and under conversation agent
we're going to change it from home
assistant to llama 3.2 now one thing we
do have to do if you wanted to have
access to our stuff in our home we have
to click on that gear and then go from
No Control to assist to give it access
you can also kind of tell it who it is
actually I like to add cuz it might not
answer you it might not answer questions
you ask you say you can also answer any
other question you have options here but
we're going to ignore that for now click
on submit finish and update so now we're
using AMA this is this is so fun check
this out we're going to go to uh we'll
go to our laptop and launch task manager
so we can see our GPU go crazy when we
ask it questions okay here we go okay
Nabu who was the first president of the
United States there it goes it's using
it the first president of the United
States was George Washington he served
from
1,789 to
1,797 and is often referred to as the
father of our country yeah did you see
that Spike what's really cool is the
context okay
Nabu turn off the light Chuck lamp I
have successfully turned off the light
in Studio One okay cool now let's see if
it keeps the context this is what we
could not do before okay Nabu turn it
back
on yes I was able to turn on the light
Chuck lamp okay perfect okay so now
we're using a local llm hosted on my
laptop back here but honestly things are
a bit slow I don't like that so the next
phase the next level in our plan our
mission we're going deeper we're going
to try and host more and more of that
voice pipeline off of the little
Raspberry Pi no it's this guy this
Raspberry Pi on to more beefier Hardware
like my laptop here let's go to our
voice pipeline real quick back here in
home assistant we'll go to settings
we'll go to U voice assistants and click
on home assistant the first thing is our
speech to text faster whisper I want to
offload that and host it on that laptop
let's do that right now here on my
Windows laptop I'm going to launch
terminal and this will be a Linux based
thing it's going be actually a Docker
container so if you're running Mac or
Linux you're good to go if you're
running Windows you'll just need to do
some wsl2 magic now if you're like Chuck
I don't know what that is I've got a
video right here check it out I'm going
to launch a fresh WSL instance onall
Ubuntu 2204 create some new login stuff
and we'll do a pseudo AP update to
update our repositories if I put my
password in right I always mess that up
and then let's make sure we have Docker
installed we'll do a little pseudo AP
install docker.io and then right after
that type in Docker compose because
we'll be using that compose is amazing
you're like Chuck I don't know what that
is I got a video on that too right here
we'll do A- y at the end and install all
that and actually I lie we're not going
to use compose but hey we have it
installed now real quick we're going to
make one directory mkd we'll call it
whisper data just like that now with one
command we're going to launch a
container called Wyoming whisper this is
also run by the raspy open source
company and we're going to change one
thing that's the path because we're
doing a volume mapping here in Docker we
need to change the path to that folder
we just made so we going to take all
that out and just put in Tilda SL
whisper data that should do it oh and we
got to do pseudo Docker run Ready Set
fingers crossed let's go it's going to
download that image and notice this is
Wyoming whisper not just whisper it's
whisper with the Wyoming protocol built
in and it's running so you see right
here info main ready now we need to add
this to home assistant and because we're
running the Wyoming protocol it's going
to be so easy watch this it's ridiculous
here in home assistant we'll go to
settings we'll go to devices and
services and we'll scroll down until we
see our Wyoming protocol right here and
before we do anything I do want to
rename our old whisper because it might
get a little confusing yours might be
called faster whisper if you just did
this in a similar way that I did but we
can click on the Dots here click on
rename call it whisper old and we'll
actually click on the one entity and the
faster whisper here and we'll change
that name too go to the gear and change
the name up here to faster whisper old
if there's nothing there just put faster
whisper old up dat now we can click on
add service here we're going to put the
IP address in similar to what we did
with AMA the IP address of our machine
gosh I forgot it stinking again 1072 104
need to get that tattooed and the port
was
10300 right yes 103 or 10300 I'm losing
my mind fingers crossed click submit
success we got it now all we have to do
is go to settings go to Voice assistants
jump into our home assistant and then
scroll down to speech to text and change
that from faster whisper old to faster
whisper that's our new thing and click
on update now your Wyoming satellite or
whatever you have may do something fun
here real quick it'll refresh go red and
blink and it's back now let's see what
happens okay
Nabu what year did the movie The Matrix
come
out the movie The Matrix was released in
1999 that was pretty fast I got to do a
comparison let's change it back okay
Nabu what year did the movie The M come
out the movie The Matrix was released in
1999 now just so you know I'm not sure I
mentioned this earlier in the video you
don't need any special device to be able
to use your voice assistant that we're
creating now you can actually use the
home assistant app which is free like
everything free and open source and you
can just click the dots to the top right
go to assist and have a conversation
what year did the movie Gone With the
Wind come out yeah there there it is
using my stuff I couldn't find any
information on a movie called gun with a
win could you please provide more
context or check if the movie title is
correct forget about that tell me how
many movies Tom Cruz has been in now the
playback is slow Tom Cruz has appeared
in over 50 films throughout his career
including Top Gun 50 films okay so
that's our next task actually we've
offloaded the speech to text now let's
offload the text to speech the TTS
actually before we do that let's close
the stalker container and let's run it
as a Damon so over here we'll do
run-it that way it's going to run all
the time it's not going to just be
sitting here do a pseudo Docker PS there
it is oh and by the way this container
right now is not using our GPU now this
laptop does have a 3080 a notebook
quality 3080 but it's not using the GPU
it is possible to get the GPU to work
with this Docker container but I'll tell
you one thing it's not stinking easy I
tried for hours and hours and hours I
finally got it to work on Terry could
not get it to work on
him honestly I'm not sure it's that
worth it but if you're crazy like me
you'll you'll you'll push through but no
GPU is really easy I'll show you how
Terry does in a second now let's get rid
of Piper on the home assistant device
let's offload that text to speech so
we'll get back to our laptop and again
Windows Mac Linux this will all work on
everything this will be another yet
another Docker container we'll create
one more directory inkd we'll call it
Piper data and then we'll paste in this
command another Ducker run command and
we'll change one thing just as we did
before the path to our Piper data
excellent now we're going to run it
interactively to make sure it's working
Ready set go it's going to pull down the
oh wait we forgot pseudo PSE sudo it's
going to pull down the docker container
and it's ready now next step let's add
that to our home assistant our voice
pipeline what port was that again Port
10200 so we'll go back to settings
devices we've been here before go to
Wyoming protocol and just like we did
before let's rename Piper so we don't
get confused because it will use the
exact same name say Piper old and we'll
jump into the entity and rename that as
well and update all right let's get back
add a service put in the IP address of
our server I think I remember it this
time 104 got it and then our Port 10200
Ready Set fingers crossed go Piper was
found awesome click on finish now let's
add that to our voice pipeline go to
settings voice assistants home assistant
scroll down just a little bit until we
see text to speech we'll go from Piper
Old to Piper our new one and click on
update I'm so curious to see if this is
any faster we'll let that refresh done
and let's see if it actually works okay
Nabu what year did Bill Gates create his
computer Bill Gates co-created the first
successful version of the operating
system msdos in 1981 and his first
commercially successful software product
basic for Microsoft was was released in
1975 okay Nabu how long after that did
Steve Jobs make
his I couldn't find any information on a
computer created by Steve Jobs however I
can tell you that Steve Jobs co-founded
Apple Inc in
1976 with Steve wasak and Ronald Wayne
and he played a key role in the
development of the Macintosh computer in
the
1980s okay now that's just awesome we've
offloaded pretty much our entire
actually no we offloaded everything our
entire voice pipeline onto our computer
here it's no longer running on home
assistant and similar to the Wyoming
whisper the Wyoming Piper container can
be run with the GPU I'm just not going
to show you how to do that because there
are too many individual things I would
never be able to show you it and it it
probably would never work for you I'm
just telling you if I showed it to you
you have to dig into it yourself CPU
actually works pretty good now let me
show you Terry I'm going to add Terry to
do this I'll simply add that in my
Wyoming protocol putting in Terry's IP
address faster whisper and Piper and
tell you what let's add uh let's add his
chat GPT as well through AMA so it's all
running on Terry yes you can add more
than one llm from various servers or the
same server if you want I'll just pick
one of my llms here actually I need to
rename this so I don't get confused
we'll do llama 32 done let's go adjust
our voice pipeline I think it's all ter
right now yep click on
update okay Nabu how many Batman movies
are there I don't don't have a specific
answer to your question about the number
of Batman movies could you please
specify which movies or era you are
referring to is it the DC extended
Universe DCU or the previous films based
on the comics oh wait I didn't give it
to Terry I give the L on the Terry
update I totally did not do that okay
let's try it again okay Nabu how many
total Batman movies are there across all
the universes there are numerous Batman
films including one DC extended Universe
DCU asterisk Batman v Superman dawn of
Justice 2016 asterisk justice3 animated
film asteris Batman and
mr9 animated film asteris Batman of the
batman3 Harley Quin 2020 wild I asked
the wrong question is listening all the
Batman movies univers and mediums here
is the revised list one DC extended
Universe DC
unplug
that that was funny oh boy let's plug
that back in okay here's the state of
things we've gone pretty far we now have
a voice assistant that's using some
serious Hardware Terry my AI server for
all of its processing from speech to
text text to speech and it's using the
local llm llama 32 and it can control my
stinking house okay Nabu turn off Chuck
lamp
the Chuck lamp has been turned off it's
Pretty stinking fast okay Nabu turn it
back
on the Chuck lamp in Studio 1 has been
turned on do a short flash on Chuck
lamp the Chuck lamp in Studio 1 is now
flashing no it's not do a short flash on
Chuck lamp the Chuck lamp in Studio One
is now flashing briefly no it's not okay
so here's the state of voice
assistance hosting it yourself it's okay
like I think it's enough for me to make
the move there are still some things
that I think Alexa is very good at but
it can't do AI yet which is pretty
compelling for me to host my AI locally
and have it talk to me on a voice
assistant that I can deploy many of
throughout my house that's powerful now
you may be thinking what about a screen
Alexa has screens this doesn't have a
screen hold on like I said you can do
pretty much whatever Hardware you want
to create a Wyoming satellite one of
those is this this little guy here yes
it does have a screen this is the ESP 32
S3 box it's created by Express if the
people who make the esp32 and this is a
specialized one that has a screen and
it's designed to be a voice assistant
now the S3 box is really cool screen's
kind of small speaker kind of sucky but
it's neat I might end up buying more you
can actually set timers similar to Alexa
which this thing currently doesn't do so
far yet yes it is missing some stuff
from Alexa but I had so much fun doing
this and I love that it's all local I
don't even care I'll live with it and so
all my family they'll have to cuz I'm
going to replace Alexa now there's two
things that I'm actually missing right
now that I want to try and do it doesn't
answer to Terry or he doesn't answer to
Terry that teaching Terry his name is
actually pretty easy I got a link below
in the documentation and home assistant
walks us through creating our own wake
word and what we're going to start is
right here opening this link to a wick
word training environment this is using
Google collab you'll be using their data
center to train a new word which is kind
of funny when you think about it like
for me I thought okay I'll just type in
a new word and it will just recognize it
but no you have to train an AI model to
be able to recognize the sounds of Terry
and this will be fairly quick the first
thing we'll do is enter our awake word
right here now let's just try Terry and
then click this play button on the left
and it's done now we're going to scroll
down a bit and click on this play icon
down here and see if it sounds right
carry carry carry what so you may want
to do some fanatic spelling so I'll go
back up here and change it to ter e
let's try that let's see how it sounds
Terry Terry better once you're happy
with that go to the top and click on
runtime in the menu and then run all
ready set go this might take a minute so
get some coffee right now it's using
machine learning to train a new wake
word for your voice assistant when it
does finish you should see two files
downloaded automatically a TF light file
and an onyx file this is what we'll
upload to home assistant to give it a
voice here in home assistant we'll need
one add-on to make this work so we'll go
to settings and and then click on
add-ons and then we'll click on the
add-in store down here or add-on store
and we'll search for Samba there it is
what this will do is allow us to connect
to home assistant's file system and
upload files so we'll click on that and
then click on install give it a second
little coffee break and then before we
start this we'll go to configuration at
the top here just click on that and
we'll set a password and then scroll
down a little bit and click save then
get back over to info and click on start
now how you connect a home assistant
using SoMo will vary depending on the
operating system you have for me I'm
rocking window Windows I'll show you
that real quick so first we'll take note
of the IP address mine is 1921 16883 so
from here I'm going to launch my Windows
Explorer and now we'll have
documentation below for the other
operating systems and then right here at
my I guess it's the address bar right at
the address bar click in there and we'll
type in back SLB slash our IP address
back slash share it should pop up and
say hey log in put in the username home
assistant and the password we just set
and go awesome we're in now here we're
going to create One Directory we'll
right click and say new folder folder
directory same kind of thing and we'll
name it open wake word just like that
we'll jump in there and then we'll drag
our two files our TF light and our Onyx
file right in there done now getting
back to home assistant we'll go to
settings Voice Assistant jump into our
voice assistant and scroll down until we
see open wake word we'll change it from
OK Nabu to there's a new one right there
Terry can't help with that I just
realized I said it it's so funny to
Terry and update fingers crossed this
should give Terry a new name Terry oh it
already worked the living room room
lights have been turned off would you
like to turn on the lights in a specific
area no Terry what year did The Matrix
come out the Matrix film was released in
1999 however the movie's story line and
Main release date is also subject to
multiple variations as it includes
different Matrix versions or chapters
Terry has a name also I don't like the
voice it has I want my own custom voice
to be Terry this
Terry now I tried to make that happen in
this video I couldn't figure it out I
spent hours I spent a whole day just
troubleshooting it and nights and I
ignored everybody and I couldn't do it
but I'm going to do it in the next video
I don't care how much coffee it takes
I'm going to do it